Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we're moving into a new section and that section isn't titled lists.
But before we jump into lists let's talk about a new concept for a few moments.
And that concept is data structures a data structure is a collection of data elements such as numbers
or characters that are structured in some way such as by numbering the the most basic data structure
in Python is a sequence.
Each element of a sequence is assigned a number its position or index or we've already discussed the
first index start at zero.
The second index is one and so on and so on.
So let's just take a moment to talk about how numbers work.
Once again in pite when you count things you most likely start counting at 1 in Python and then you
add a programming languages.
It's slightly different.
You start counting at zero.
One of the reasons for starting at zero as we've already discussed is because you can also come backwards
Piven has six built in types of sequences.
This section concentrates on one of the most common and that is Lists.
Lists are one of Python's most powerful features and one of my favorite.
So what exactly is a list.
Well as we've already said it's a collection of items in a particular order the items in a list are
called elements.
You can make a list containing anything you want.
Months of the year family names numbers absolutely anything because you will usually store more than
one element in your list.
It's a good idea when naming them to make the names plural.
So just months names etc. when creating a list you start with the name of the list.
So let's jump back into recoated are now and have a look.
So as I've just said when creating a list you start with the names of the last month's equals.
You don't start and end your list with square brackets.
So let's open up square brackets and as you say close the square brackets individual elements of your
list start and end with a single quote.
So let's put in a month here and let's go with January.
So as you can see we start and we close with single quotes.
When you add additional elements to your list they are separated by a comma again opening closing single
quotes
that's in a month
and another
actually here I have left out a closing quote and we put that in.
And as you can see our code has changed the font color of April.
Now let's ask him to print out our list of months
and as we have down the bottom left hand corner we can see our list of months January February March
April.
Now it's not very user friendly as we've already discussed elements in a list are numbered from zero
upwards.
This means that you can access each element individually like this.
So let's have a look at another print statement and we go print months and because we're trying to access
an element of a list we open with square brackets and we close with square brackets and we call the
first element in our list which was January and it's our position 0.
Now again let's print this.
And as you can see in the bottom left the next line printed out is January.
Not too bad.
So that's a little bit more user friendly.
What about capitalizing the first letter of the month.
Well we can use what we did previously when trying to capitalize strings.
So let's added this line and our code again and let's go print
months and again we're accessing element 0 opening closing square brackets that title.
And as always opening closing brackets.
Now let's print this out and again we have a new line here and it's January with a capital J.
Now that's nice.
Now we have the first element in our list printed cleanly and capitalized.
Accessing more than one element from our list to do that we can repeat our print statement print months
we want to access.
Now the second element in our list which is our position one and again we want to capitalize it that's
printed and see how it looks.
There we go January February and you can do that for all the elements in your list.
Later on we look about doing this with one statement but for now this is how we're going to do it.
Okay.
So let's use what we've learned so far but taking one element from our list and putting it in a mess.
Let's clear off what we have here.
So let's get rid of this here but leave your list of months in place.
So our message equals opening closing double quote I was born in leave a space closed or double quotes
we are in the plus symbol for concatenation and we're adding in months and we're putting in position
tree.
So I was born in April and we want to capitalize April 1 I put to our screen
and then we want to add in a full stop.
Now I want to use double quotes there thought Now let's have a look at that print.
Message.
And there we go.
Bottom left hand corner.
I was born in April.
Very very nice.
So as you can see this can become very very powerful feature and it doesn't matter if you have one five
ten or a million elements within your list.
You can still store the same information and run the same programs on the lists in the next lecture.
We'll look at changing adding and removing elements from our list.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.